# MPA abstract


# Planning to Save Energy: How Information Format Affects Accuracy

## Purpose

Energy poverty continues to be a pervasive issue in the United States
Memmott et al. (2021) . This challenge partly arises from difficulties
in converting information across numerical formats, impeding the
development of precise energy reduction plans Reimer et al. (2015).
Prior research by Canfield et al. (2017) demonstrated that presenting
energy information in tabular formats enhances comprehension relative to
graphs. Building on these findings and informed by prior work showing
that frequencies (like absolute units in kWh) are easier to comprehend
and facilitate more precise decision-making compared to percentages, our
study also utilizes a tabular format, but manipulates whether
participants must consider energy information presented as absolute
units (kWh), percentages (%), or monetary costs (USD). We hypothesize
that presenting information in absolute units (kWh) will lead to more
accurate household energy conservation planning.

## Purpose

We conducted two experiments. Study 1 (N=235) manipulated representation
format (kWh, percentage, USD) between subjects. Participants crafted
plans to meet specific reduction targets by adjusting the energy usage
across five appliance categories. Study 2 (N=196) includes additional
factors: rounding (rounded vs. exact numbers) and task goal (10% vs. 15%
reduction).

## Results

We analyzed planning accuracy using Bayesian ordinal regression. The
dependent variable, plan error, was computed by binning the goal
deviation into four ordered levels: exact match (0% error), minor
deviations (0.01-2% error), moderate deviations (2.01-15% error), and
major deviations (\>15% error). For each comparison, we provide
posterior odds ratios (OR) and their 95% CIs.

In Study 1, the absolute units (kWh) condition was significantly more
accurate than USD (OR = 14.1, 95% CI \[4.1, 38.0\]). The comparison
between kWh and percentage formats was less conclusive (OR = 2.3, 95% CI
\[0.62, 6.1\]). Study 2 replicated these patterns: planning accuracy was
significantly higher for kWh compared to USD (OR = 3.69, 95% CI \[1.33,
8.29\]), while the advantage over percentages remained uncertain (OR =
1.99, 95% CI \[0.73, 4.43\]). Study 2 also revealed that rounded numbers
significantly improved planning accuracy compared to exact numbers (OR =
0.70, 95% CI \[0.57, 0.84\]), and that 10% goals led to more accurate
planning than 15% goals (OR = 0.78, 95% CI \[0.63, 0.94\]).

## Conclusions and Implications

These findings underscore the efficacy of presenting energy reduction
goals in absolute units (kWh) over relative (%) or monetary (USD)
formats in facilitating accurate energy planning. Specifically, the USD
format consistently hindered accuracy. Additionally, simplifying
numerical information through rounding significantly enhanced accuracy.

## 50-Word Abstract for Program Book

This study examines how presenting energy information in different
formats (kWh, %, USD) affects planning accuracy. Across two experiments,
the kWh format generally led to better accuracy, while the USD format
consistently led to the worst performance. These findings highlight the
importance of effective information presentation to promote energy
conservation.

## References

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent"
entry-spacing="0" line-spacing="2">

<div id="ref-canfieldPerceptionsElectricityuseCommunications2017"
class="csl-entry">

Canfield, C., Bruine De Bruin, W., & Wong-Parodi, G. (2017). Perceptions
of electricity-use communications: Effects of information, format, and
individual differences. *Journal of Risk Research*, *20*(9), 1132–1153.
<https://doi.org/10.1080/13669877.2015.1121909>

</div>

<div id="ref-memmottSociodemographicDisparitiesEnergy2021"
class="csl-entry">

Memmott, T., Carley, S., Graff, M., & Konisky, D. M. (2021).
Sociodemographic disparities in energy insecurity among low-income
households before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. *Nature Energy*,
*6*(2), 186–193. <https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-020-00763-9>

</div>

<div id="ref-reimerNumericCommunicationRisk2015" class="csl-entry">

Reimer, T., Jones, C., & Skubisz, C. (2015). Numeric Communication of
Risk. In *The SAGE handbook of risk communication* (pp. 167–179).

</div>

</div>
